Lab Part 1 - create a repository
1. What message appears after running git init?
Initialized empty Git repository in C:/Users/Instructor/Desktop/lab0_Gitlab/.git/

2. What hidden folder was created?
The hidden folder was .git 

Lab Part 3 – Check Repository Status
1. What color is the filename?
Red
2. What does "Untracked" mean?
To ignore a file because it has never been added to the repository's history

Lab Part 4 – Stage Changes
1. Why do you think Git requires a staging area?
To have control over which changes get recorded in the repository history

Lab Part 5 – Commit Changes
1. What is the commit message?
[master (root-commit) 7b8b415] Initial commit
 1 file changed, 0 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 create mode 100644 README.md

2. What is display after running git log?
commit 7b8b4156f47f1201bd7febb90b30a8abddf3d75f (HEAD -> master)
Author: Joseph Evans <Joseph.Evans@login.cuny.edu>
Date:   Wed Sep 2 11:48:49 2026 -0400

Lab Part 8 – Make Another Change
1. Do you see the changes in the remote repository?
yes, GitHub shows the updated file.

Reflection Questions
1.	Why is source control important? 
 Source control keeps a full history of your code changes so you can restore old versions if you mess up.

2.	What is the purpose of a commit? 
     A commit serves is like a checkpoint in your repository's timeline, 
  taking a permanent snapshot of your staged files alongside a note explaining what changed.

3.	What is the difference between git add and git commit? 
     "git add"places your changes into a temporary staging area, 
    while "git commit" permanently saves those staged changes into the project history

4.	Why do developers use meaningful commit messages? 
     Clear messages explain the exact reason of a change, 
     making it much easier for you or your group to navigate project history and fix issues later on.

5.	What happens when you run git push? 
     It uploads your local commits to a remote server like GitHub so your updated code is backed up.

6.	What would happen if you forgot to commit before pushing? 
     only sends committed snapshots to GitHub. If you haven't committed your latest changes yet, 
     Git will report that everything is already up to date, which it wonld not be.